ROB DODSON: Hey everyone!
What's up?
It's Rob Dodson here,
and in this episode,
I'm going to show you how
you can beef up your core
icons by loading in
additional icon sets.
I'm also going to show you
how you create your own custom
icon sets using SVG.
So let's check it out.
So we're going to start
by building our own icon
set from scratch.
That will show off
all the concepts
that we want to
cover in this video.
So we're going to be using
the core-iconset-svg element.
And keep in mind, there's
also a core-iconset element
that's primarily for
generating raster icon sets.
We're going to focus
on the SVG version
because it looks
nicer, and tends
to scale better on
different screens.
Now this is the first icon that
we're going to be producing,
and we're going to give
it the name fancy-circles.
And it's not
actually that fancy,
it's just a few
overlapping circles,
but it'll be a good starting
point for our icon set.
The first thing
we've got to do is
we need to import the definition
for our core-iconset-svg
element.
So over here, I've got bower
components/core iconset SVG,
and that's going to actually
load in this tag over here,
so I can start using
it in my application.
And the next thing
I want to do is
I want to configure this thing.
So I've got to give
it an ID, and this ID
is really important,
because this is actually
the name of my icon set.
This is how people are going
to refer to my icon set later
on when they want to
pull something out of it.
So we're calling
it custom-icons.
And if we want, we can also
give it an optional icon size.
Here, I'm setting it to
50, which means 50 pixels.
By default, all the icons
coming out of our set
would be 24 pixels, but
setting this icon size
is going to boost
that up for us.
Again, it's optional,
you don't have
to include it if
you don't want to.
Now I'm going to open
my icon set tag up,
and I'm going to drop some
SVG markup inside of here.
And this is actually
the SVG code
that's going to generate
those circles for us.
The thing to note
here is that we also
need to give this an
ID, and this is actually
the name of our icon.
So when someone wants
to use this icon,
they're going to ask
for the icon set,
and then they're going
to ask for the icon.
I'll show you an
example of that.
So here I've got a
core-icon element.
The icon attribute's
totally empty.
So we're going to
ask for the icon
set, which was custom-icons.
We'll ask for the icon,
which is fancy-circles.
We'll separate them
with a little colon,
and now our icon is
showing up on screen.
But it doesn't quite look
like what we imagined, right?
It's all one color, so
it's kind of boring.
But this is actually one of
the cooler aspects of SVG.
Because under the hood
everything is markup,
we can actually go in and target
the different SVG elements,
and style them individually.
So let me show you
how that works.
So here's my icon
over here, and I've
got a style element on the left.
And what I'm going to do
is start writing selectors
to target the bits of the
icon that I want to colorize.
So I'll start with
this top circle,
and move my way down all
the way to the bottom.
So I can go in and style the
individual parts if I want.
If you remember
in the last video,
we showed how you can use
the color property to give
an icon a uniform color
all the way across.
You can still do that with
this icon if you want,
but SVG allows you a
little bit more control
if you need it,
which is pretty cool.
All right, so now
you've gone ahead.
You've made your first icon set,
you know how all that works.
The next thing I
want to do is I want
to take somebody else's icon
set and load it into my project.
Now, if you recall
in the last video,
I showed you this
link, which goes
to the documentation for the
core icon default icon set.
But if you scroll
around that page,
you'll see that there's
actually a whole bunch
of other stuff on here.
There's other icon sets.
There's AV icons for
audiovisual, maps, hardware.
So if you want to load an
icon from one of those sets,
the cool thing is that it
works exactly the same way
as the custom icon set
we were just showing.
So I'll give you
an example here.
Let's say I want to load in this
play icon from the AV icon set.
So I'm going to import the
definition for those icons.
So I'm going to ask for
core-icons, av-icons,
and then I can just use the AV
icon in my core icon elements.
I'm going to say I want an
av icon, colon, play-arrow,
and that's going to give me
this icon right over here.
Super simple.
All right, so now you know how
to create your own icon set.
You know how to take an icon
set that somebody else has made
for you, and actually
load it into your project.
Let's switch over to
our code editor now,
and we're actually
going to get some
of this showing up on screen.
All right, so here
we've got a project
that's all set up
and ready to go.
And the first thing we're going
to want to do is create a brand
new file called
custom-icons.html.
This is actually
where we're going
to put the definition for
the icon that we write.
Now that we've got
this file ready,
we can just import
the definition
for the core-iconset-svg
element.
So I'm assuming it's
in bower_components,
and I'm pulling
core-iconset-svg.
And now that that's
ready, I can actually
just use the icon set tag on
my page, so core-iconset-svg.
And we're going to configure it.
We're going to make
sure to give it the ID,
so our icon set has a name.
So we're going to
call it custom-icons.
And we'll also throw in the
iconSize attribute as well.
We'll set it equal to 50.
Now remember, this iconSize
attribute is optional,
you don't have to include it.
I'm just throwing it
in here for funsies,
so you guys can see it.
So I'm just going to
go down and actually
paste in the code, the
SVG code, for my icon.
And you'll see here
that I've got that ID.
So my icon has a name
of fancy-circles.
And at this point my icon set
is basically complete, right?
It's an icon set of one,
there's only one icon in it.
But that's cool, we'll see
what we can get showing up.
So over in my
index file, there's
a few things I've got to do.
I've got to make sure
to pull in the platform,
so I'm going to pull in bower
components/platform/platform.js.
I'm going to import in the
definition for the core icon
elements, so I can
actually display my icon.
And I'm going to
import the definition
for this custom-icons
file that I just created.
So now my icon set is available.
And then in my body tag, I'll
just throw in a core-icon.
And I'm going to set
the icon attribute
equal to custom-icons,
and put a colon in there,
and then fancy-circles.
If I save this, hop over to my
browser, and refresh the page,
up there in the corner
you'll see a little icon.
And I'm going to boost this up,
so you can see it a bit easier.
There's our fancy-circles
ready to go.
Now if you recall,
we gotta go in,
and we gotta add some style to
it, so it looks like we expect.
So I'm going to add
a style element.
And again, I'm just going
to paste in the CSS here,
so you guys don't have to
watch me type it all out.
Now that's in,
and I'm just going
to clean up the
formatting a little bit.
So we save this,
refresh the page,
and now our icon's
showing up as we expected.
Now what's really
cool is we can go in
and we can change these fill
colors to whatever we want.
So we can set this equal
to red, green, blue.
And it's not going to be
the best looking icon,
but it will sort of demonstrate
the point that we really
can go in and target
different parts of our icon,
and change the appearance,
which is really handy.
So I've shown you how to
load in your custom icon.
Let's go back and
clean that up a little.
Now let's actually load an icon
from one of the additional sets
that come with the
core-icons package.
So I'm going to, up
here in my imports area,
I'm going to import the
definition for the AV icon set.
So I'm assuming it's
in bower_components,
I'm going to ask for
core-icons/av-icons.html.
If you want, if you actually
open your Bower components
folder and open the
core-icons package,
you can see all the different
icon sets that are in here.
So there's AV icons,
communication, device,
hardware.
Lots of cool stuff in
there to play around with.
And it's really as easy as
just importing the definition.
So down here my body tag, I'm
going to add another core-icon.
And this time, I'm going to
set the icon attribute equal
to av:play-arrow, and that's
going to give me the play arrow
from the AV set.
Refresh my page, and now I've
got this black icon up here.
If I want to style it,
and give it some color,
I can maybe give it a class
name, or something like that.
So I'll say the class
is equal to icon-play.
And then in my CSS, I'll
just style off of that class.
And say, hey, icon-play should
have a color of light green,
or something.
Just to show that you
can go in, and you
can style an entire
icon one color.
Cool, awesome.
Now one thing
that's really neat,
which we haven't
touched on before,
is to point out the
fact that there's
a bunch of different
elements in the core elements
set that support
icon attributes.
So I'm actually going to import
the definition for a core icon
button.
This is something that we
haven't actually seen yet,
but it's really handy.
So I'll pull in a
core icon button,
and then I'm just going
to use its icon attribute
to load in one of
these AV icons.
So I'm asking for
a core-icon-button,
I'm going to set its icon
equal to av:play-arrow,
swap back over to the
browser, refresh the page,
and if I sort of adjust the
size down on our browser window,
now we've got this
really cool play button.
Super simple.
All right, so you're now
officially a core icon master.
You know how to
create icon sets,
you know how to load icon sets
that other people have made
for you, and you know how
to style all it using CSS.
That means it's your turn
to go out there and start
creating some really awesome.
Thanks for watching.